So as you can tell, maps in a way are pretty similar to objects, which of course raises the question, when
should you use which?
So let's compare the two. Maps can use any values and any types as keys, so you can have an object as
a key, a string, a number and in the same map, you can have mixed key types. Objects on the other hand can
have mixed key types but you are restricted to using strings, numbers or symbols,
we'll learn about symbols later,
so you have less flexibility there.
You can't
use a boolean as a key and an object,
you can't use another object or an array. For large quantities of data
and with that I mean more than 10 entries, really large quantities, maps can provide better performance
than objects do. So that might be one possible use case
if you're working with large amounts of key-value data which you need in your application and in many
applications, you might never really have that much data but if you do have that, that might be a place
where you want to use maps, whereas objects are perfect for small or medium sized sets of data.
And with that, I really mean medium sized not in the sense of five key-value pairs but still pretty big,
30, 40 key-value pairs,
that's certainly not a problem for an object.
Objects by the way will also have another advantage which we'll see once we dive deeper into objects
in the objects
deep dive module, you can have methods that interact with the data in the object,
that's not really possible on maps.
So if you have methods that need to do something with the data that's part of the object,
that's a strong reason to use an object.
Now maps also can yield better performance when adding and removing data frequently,
so if you have some operation which adds key-value pairs and removes key-value pairs multiple times
per second, then a map might be worth a look. Objects on the other hand in general are easier and quicker
to create, not just because you have that shorter syntax with curly braces but also from a performance
perspective, new map takes a bit longer than creating an object with curly braces,
though as always, with all these performance things, it's always important to keep in mind that we're
talking about differences which you won't feel in the majority of apps you're building.
So in general, the summary I want to give you here, not just about maps versus objects but about arrays
sets and maps and objects in general is that in probably around 98% of cases, you will work with
arrays and objects. Sets and maps have their niche cases where they can shine for unique value which has
to be unique in the case of sets, for large quantities of fast changing data
in the case of maps or if you have some use case where you have some data, let's say an object, where
you kind of want to attach extra data which you don't want to merge into the object, as we did it in
this example I showed you in this module, then you could also think about using a map to use the object
as a key and add the extra data as part of the map instead of as part of the object.
But again in the vast majority of cases, you can focus on arrays and objects but since sets and maps
exist and you might encounter them in other code and you might personally also end up in some application
at some point of time where you can benefit from them,
it's of course important to be aware of them and to know them. Well and with that, they're actually also
are two specific versions of sets and maps which are also quite interesting.